We saw css transition properties in action and css animations,
now let's mix both.
I want to adjust my slide-in animation here such that it not only slides up and down but that it is also
becoming transparent or is transparent at the beginning.
Now to acheive this,
I will first adjust my slide-enter class here,
here I will have an initial opacity of zero
and on slide-enter-active, I therefore also want to attach a transition where I set the opacity over
let's say half a second
and yes of course you could animate the opacity here in your keyframes as well,
I just want to show you how to mix transition and animation here because sometimes you need it or you
want that behavior.
Now for slide-leave, I don't need to set up anything because we don't need to set an opacity there, the default
opacity of 1 is exactly what you want
but here, I want to add a transition upon leaving it or upon this leave-active class being attached
and here I want to animate the opacity over one second let's say
and of course also set the opacity to zero here.
Now if I reload this, let's see, I'd say this looks much better now, though we do have a problem
here
now, if we have a look at this right now, we're animating here over one second when we animated in and
we transitioned over one second if we animated out.
Now the issue we do have is if I were to set the transition of the opacity here to 3 seconds upon
removing it
and I reload this, well to us, it looks a bit strange here doesn't it now because now it jumps. The reason
here of course is that normally we would want this animation to end once it slide down and maybe it
is not fully transparent by this point of time but it certainly looks ugly if it uses the transition.
Now the problem is since we have both animation and transition here, vuejs doesn't know which one
to use,
we have two different operations here and it takes the longer one.
Now we can tell vuejs which duration of which property to use by adding a type property here
to the transition component and then setting type either to animation or to transition because these are
the two css properties we can use to animate things
and with that, we can set up which one to use.
So I could set this to animation and this will make sure that for vuejs, the animation finishes,
the transition I should say here finishes but both names are occupied so that this removing of the element
is done once the animation here finishes and not once the transition finishes because I set this to
type animation.
We can see this if I reload this animate it in and now if I remove it,
we see we don't have that ugly jump because even though the transition wasn't finished, it took three
seconds,
the animation, the css property animation was finished and that is then when vuejs knows,
okay I'm done,
remove it.
So this is important,
if you mix animation and transition, make sure to set up which one dictates the length.